The next topic I'd like to
discuss is Error Handling.
As we kind of mentioned,
at the very beginning error handling is
one of those particularly unique functions
within GO because GO is going
to treat every error as a value
rather than an exception.
And there are two kinds of errors
that we've kind of looked at so far,
that we've seen happening in our
console and haven't talked a lot about.
And that's an error and
something called a panic.
An error indicates that something
bad happened to your application,
something went wrong.
But it might be possible to
continue running the program.
We need to handle it.
We need to figure out what we wanna
do about the thing that went wrong.
For instance, a function that
intentionally returns an error that you're
kind of waiting for like hey,
Go make this string uppercase.
And if you happen to do something
that's not uppercase, let me know so
I can modify that in a different way.
Panic, on the other hand happens at
runtime and it's going to be something
that was fatal to your program and
your program has to stop execution.
For instance, or your user tries to open
a file that doesn't exist or you're trying
to hit an endpoint that doesn't exist,
something that you kind of can't control
from the code side, but that your
application needs to handle regardless.
So let's start with the error type here.
And the error behind the scenes
is coming from the error
type which is an interface in Go,
which we'll talk about in a little bit.
But you'll see at the top right hand
side here, it starts with the word type.
It is an error type and then it's an
interface similar to like type struct or
type string.
And an interface, which we'll discuss
more in depth in just a little while,
has a series of methods that
you can call on that type.
So if we have an error type you'll
see that last line that is front
print line and
then err which represents our error.
And we can call .Error on
that variable which we're gonna
look at here in the next slide.
And in the middle we have our
err variable being defined as
the result of whatever function that
may or may not return an error.
So let's hop over to our
errors.go file and do some coding.
Cool so
let's talk about this first example here.
Our first function is greater than 10.
And it takes a number and
it may or may not return an error.
9 to 11 is checking to see if
that number is less than 10,
return, let's create a new error.
So we can use our errors
package from Go and
instantiate a new error that
something bad happened.
If the number is not less than 10,
we can return nil.
So error is one of those kind of unique
types where we can return an error but
we can also return nil which is why a lot
of our error checking begins with if error
is not nil.
Let's scroll down to
our main function here.
And I just looked this up.
We're instantiating a variable
nom which is set to 9.
And then because r is greater than
10 potentially returns an error.
Our variable in the left hand side is err.
And then we're calling is greater than
10 and passing in our num, which is 9.
The next thing we're doing
is handling that error.
So if our error is not nil,
meaning our error or
our function actually returns some sort of
error type we want to handle that error.
So here I'm just going
to print to the console,
a formatted error message that says,
hey, the thing you did is not greater than
10 and let me know what number that was.
So in our terminal here, we're going
to run the code that is just so
far which is in section 8 in
the code directory and errors.go.
So you'll notice that when
I pass in the number 9, and
we look back up at our is
greater than 10 function.
The number 9 is less than 10,
which means we hop into our if block and
we return an error, errors.New.
To demonstrate that the err
simply is just a value,
I'm also going to print to the console,
just what is err?
Let's just look at that.
And so
our error is something bad happened.
And once again, if we scroll back up
to our function here, we're saying,
hey error's package,
create a new error, and
the context of that error
is something bad happened.
If we wanna get a little more extreme,
instead of just printing out
that error we can cause a panic.
So we can use the built
in Go function panic and
pass panic our error, run this again.
You'll see that now we have this
panic err something bad happen and
it stops execution of the whole program.
If I wanted to say like okay go ahead and
panic then also do something else.
You're noticing that I'm already
getting that little console error and
saying unreachable code.
That's because like after this
function panics, you're done.
You can't accomplish
anything else at this time.
And so here it's a little bit contrived,
we have an error.
But a more concrete example might be like,
hey, if you just tried to do something,
and the user doesn't exist.
Alert the user or
update a different part of the database
to reflect that the user doesn't exist.
Here we're just simply creating
a formatted error message.
But that allows us to actually
modify what the behavior program is
doing based on what error just occurred.
Panic, on the other hand,
kills the program.
And then the last thing I'd like to talk
about real quick is this log library.
And so when we call log.fatalline,
we're going to actually log to
wherever we're keeping track of.
Our error logs,
what just happened in our programs.
A lot of times you'll be sending this
somewhere else where you have your,
logging functionality to keep track
of any user errors that as your
application is running.
In which case you kind of get
a different formatted version.
It gives you the timestamp.
A lot of times you can specify
kind of what exactly happened when
that error happened in terms of user
interaction and stuff like that.
Cool, so let's say we have this
is greater than 10 function and
then the next thing we want to do
in our application is open a file.
But our open file function, which is right
here, it's gonna to look a little similar
to r is greater than 10 where
the only thing is going to return,
if it returns anything, is an error type.
And so here I'm introducing the OS
package and OS is for operating system.
It handles things like opening files,
saving files, etc.
And so here are OS.open is gonna
return two different things.
And if we wanna review
kind of what that means,
if you've never looked at the OS.open
function before we can use Go doc
and check hey, what does OS.open do?
So in open here It takes
a name which is a string,
it's going to return two things either
a pointer to a file and an error.
If it's successful methods on the return
file can be used for reading.
If not, there will be an error.
Which means we need to create two
variables on the left hand side
to handle the two different return values
we could get from our .open method.
And then we wanna say, hey,
if the error is nil, return the error.
Otherwise we return nil.
The other thing you'll notice
is this differ function
that we're gonna talk about shortly and
you'll see that we're calling F.Close.
So we have our open, and now we have our
F.Close, assuming F returns something
valuable, we could then close that file,
do something else with it.
And this defer function will come
into play in just a little bit.
But for right now, keep an eye on the fact
that this function returns an error if
it's going to return anything at all.
From our open files,
let's hop back down to main.
And uncomment this guy.
Cool so we're saying okay, cool.
So we've got this error up here for
if is greater than 10 returns an error.
We have an error down here for
if open file returns an error.
But we're getting a linting error.
Also, if we hover over this, we're seeing
that there are no new variables on
the left side of colon equal sign.
So here's one of those situations where
like, we do want to handle two very
specific errors in two different ways
that both happen in this main function.
But we can't have the same
variable err on both sides.
A couple different things we could do.
We could change the variable name,
we could call this,
some other error and then check that here.
But conventionally, recall that the if
block kinda contains its own scope.
So we can refactor this and
clean it up a little bit to continue
to use the conventional err
without having to refactor, or
sorry, rename the variable down here.
So let's do that on this guy.
I'm gonna bring us back to our
just print line error here.
And so,
recall that with the if block
the first thing we can do is set
an actual variable semicolon.
And then what does that function or
variable actually result in.
And we did this earlier when we were
talking about maps where if you're
going to look up a key in a map and
it returns nothing,
you can check to see if that okay
variable returns true or false.
So it's going to be
a similar structure to that.
So I'm going to comment out this guy and
pop it into our if block.
So I'm going to say if error,
which we're assigning to
a value of is greater than 10.
And passing it number semicolon,
grab that variable, check the conditional.
If it returns true,
fire off what's in this if block.
So at this point, we now no longer
have access to our error outside
of our if block,
which is the beauty of it.
So now it's kind of scoped to within this
specific case of us handling the error
based on what comes back from
our is greater than 10 function.
So because we're handling it here,
I don't really need to just print it
out to the console, I can kill that.
And then we can do
the same thing down here.
So we can say, if err.
And set that equal to our
openFile function, semicolon,
change this back to err.
And I can kill this line as well.
We'll change this back to err.
And clean up the comments.
So from what became probably
twice as many lines of code.
Essentially what we're doing
is we're wrapping each of
these pieces of functionality that have to
do with our application into two different
blocks that are scoped
within our if statements.
And this allows us to both execute
code and if it goes great cool if not,
we have two different cases where
we're handling that error in a more
encapsulated way to use more
conventional idiomatic GO.